Decemeber 5, 2003

Changes since 1.33

1) The TeX, Latex, Bibtex, MakeIndex, Metapost, Context, and
Metafont buttons on the toolbar reset the default typesetting engine.
This no longer happens. Thus it is again possible to hit the Bibtex button
and then hit command-T to typeset again.

2) The abort button on the console window did not stay fixed when
the window was resized. Thanks for Sean Luke for pointing out these
first two errors.

3) New Spanish help files by Juan Luis Varona Malumbres. Thanks.

4) Added a Matrix Panel by Jonas Zimmermann, zimmerleut@gmx.de.
Many thanks!

5) At the request of Claus Gerhardt, added an extra applescript command,
goto line. For instance

	tell front document of application "TeXShop"
	goto line 5
	end tell

6) Recall that command-1 switches back and forth between the source
and preview windows. In previous versions, this did not work when a source
window had a root file or %SourceDoc set. This is now fixed. If for
example a chapter file's SourceDoc is set to a controlling root text
and root pdf file, then typing command-1 from the chapter source will
yield the root pdf. Typing command-1 from the root pdf will lead to the
chapter source IF that pdf was previously switched to from the chapter source. Indeed, command-1 in a pdf will lead to the last source file which
switched to it. If there is no such source file, or is all of the calling
source files have since been closed, command-1 will lead to the root source.

7) Added a first cut at pdfsync. Clicking on a spot in the pdf file
while holding down the command key takes the user to the corresponding
point in the source file. If a document has a root file and several \include
files, clicking on a point in the pdf file may open an included source file
and take the user to a point in that file. Read the help file
"General Help: PdfSync" for important details.

8) Printing now respects the "scale" setting in Page Setup. It does not respect the "paper size" setting, since paper size is set in teTeX. 

9) Added pdfsync the other way. Clicking at a point in the source file (including source files with root files) while holding down the command key selects
the corresponding page in the pdf file. 
