January 9, 2006

Beginning of changes since 2.06

1) Removed Indent, Unindent, Back, and Forward key shortcuts
from non-English localizations of Menu.nib

2) Changed the ReleaseDocumentClasses default preference to 1,
since some users report a spinning beachball with the earlier 0

3) Now includes TeX-mdimporter 1.2, which fixes a memory leak
Users who installed TeXShop 2.05 and 2.06 should choose
"Select Default Preferences" in Preferences, and then reset their
preferences, or should open Terminal and type

	defaults write TeXShop ReleaseDocumentClasses 1

4) Reconnected the "Set Default Values" button in Preferences

5) Peter Dyballa recommended calling ps2pdf rather than epstopdf
when converting eps files to pdf files, and provided an example which
converted correctly with ps2pdf, but not with epstopdf. The program
currently does this if the distiller preference is "ghostscript",
and calls /usr/bin/pstopdf if it is "apple distiller"

Changes since 2.07

6) This idea of Dyballa's is not a good idea because ps2pdf
doesn't respect the bound box at all and gives pdf images
which fill the page. So I reverted back to the original behavior.

7) In the German localization, the "Default Command" preference
under the typesetting tab was not connected. This is fixed.

8) In the German localization while using a German keyboard,
the (apple)-{ keyboard shortcut for comment does not work.
On this keyboard, { is obtained as option-8. Strangely on the
same keyboard, } is obtained as option-9 but (apple)-} for
uncomment does work.

To fix this and maintain consistency, comment is now apple-3
and uncomment is now apple-4. This change was made only in the
German localization.

9) Suppose the "select tool" is selected in the Preview window
to select pieces of pdf and drag them elsewhere. If apple-1 is
then used to switch to the source window and the document is
typeset, then when the preview window becomes active again the
select tool will be inactive. This is fixed.

10) The "Insert Reference" failed because the first line
was "--Applescript direct" and ought to be "--Applescript".
This is changed. However, upgrading TeXShop doesn't upgrade
the macros, so users need to make this change by hand.

Changes since 2.08

1) Menu changes in Japanese and German

2) Fixed ISO Latin 9 Encoding

3) In help, SaveBackup should be KeepBackup, so

	defaults write TeXShop KeepBackup YES

4) This is a fix in 1.43. In CheckForUpdates, the code correctly
checks to see if the user is running on Tiger. If not, it reports
an update only if there is a version newer than 1.43, reporting
the number of this newer update in the dialog. But previously, it
then downloaded the latest version for Tiger. Now it downloads the
latest pre-Tiger version.

5) Added a new hidden preference to always open the Drawer when
the preview window is first opened. By default, this preference is NO.
To set it

	defaults write TeXShop PreviewDrawerOpen YES

6) At Bob Kerstetter's request, added a hidden preference with default
value NO:

	defaults write TeXShop ConTeXtTags YES

When this value is YES, the tags contain
\chapter, \section, \subsection, \subsubsection as before,
but in addition \subsubsubsection, \subsubsubsubsection,
\part, \title, \subject, \subsubject, \subsubsubject,
\subsubsubsubject, and \subsubsubsubsubject.

7) This is not a change, but a remark. In the latest TeX distributions,
dvips. A user wrote:

"The console indicated that/usr/local/teTeX/bin/powerpc-apple-darwin-
current/dvips could not find the figures referenced in the parent 
directory as  ../figures/xxx.eps. (Since I am writing a whole book, I 
had separated out the figures and text into two subdirectory of the 
same parent.) The pdf file produced had the typeset text, but only 
empty figures as a result" and Gerben replied "This is not a bug 
but a change in default behaviour. The old default behaviour is 
insecure. It can read files via parent directories or with absolute 
paths. You can get the old behaviour back by adding the -R0 flag to dvips."

To make this happen, change the TeXShop TeX + dvips + distiller
preference under the Engine tab for TeX and LaTeX as follows (I give
the Latex version)

	simpdftex latex --maxpfb --extradvipsopts "-R0"

8) Added an extra help section explaining how to make and use
format files with TeXShop 

