October 17, 2003

Changes since 1.30

1) Fixed three problems with Panther (this release is essential for
Panther use). Also made a few interface changes. 

	a) In Panther, older versions of TeXShop refuse to create
	new files, although they can open existing files. This is fixed 
	by adding two lines to the "displayName" code.

	b) In Panther, the small yellow tags which display the current
	page when scrolling in multipage and double multipage display
	formats were blank. Also, the small yellow tags which display
	the size of a selection rectangle as it is created to copy
	a portion of the pdf window were blank. This is fixed.

	c) On my system, Panther spellchecking often fails for all
	Cocoa programs. This happens at boot time; the computer boots
	up, but even if the first program is TextEdit or Mail, it refuses
	to "spell check as you type" and the "Spelling dialog" refuses
	to appear.

	I suspect this is due to a defective third party program on my
	disk, since other Panther users haven't seen the program. But
	I haven't been able to isolate the problem.

	Once the problem occurs, TextEdit and Mail have minor text
	input glitches which are cured by turning off continuous spell
	checking. TeXShop had more serious glitches in this situation.
	So in 1.31, extra code has been added to turn off continuous
	spell checking at start time if the spell checker is not
	available.

	d) A small number of interface changes were made
	to the preference dialog to make appearance more attractive
	in Panthr.

2) Fixed a bug reported by Luis Sequeira: when text was dragged within
the source window, it was always copied and pasted. It should have been cut and
pasted unless the option key was down. This is fixed. 

3) Slightly improved Spanish help by Juan Luis Varona Malumbres (small
icon for the list of help files in the drawer).

4) In two page mode, typesetting no longer scrolls to the first
page.

5) The new page and magnification buttons retain firstResponder
status (as before 1.29) so users can experiment with several
settings without clicking again for each experiment.

6) The largest possible magnification in the preview window is
now 1000 (previously it was 400).

7) In version 1.30 and before, if the user inputs an impossible line 
into the "Go To Line" dialog, the program could crash; this is fixed. 
Thanks to Eric Seidel for the bug report.

8) Kevin Ballard, kevin@sb.org, contributed a new English.lproj folder
with revised placement of interface items in preferences, slightly revised
menu items, and other changes to improve the look of the interface
in Panther. Many thanks!

9) Made spacing changes for Panther in the German preference panel.
Thanks to Martin Kerz for the suggestions.

10) Additional French menu translations by Hendrik Chaltin; thanks!

11) The Macros are now specific to the engine being used in the current
window. Two default sets are created when TeXShop first starts, one for
Latex and one for Context. (The Context set was created by Hans Hagen;
thanks!). Suppose a different engine is selected, say TeX. When it
starts, it will have the default Latex macros. But if this set of Macros
is edited with the Macro editor, the new set will always be associated
with TeX, while the old Latex macros will continue to be associated
with Latex.

12) There is a hidden preference item to turn off tag computation:
"defaults write TeXShop TagSections NO" but this preference was disabled
somewhere along the line and certainly in 1.30. It is enabled again.

13) A new preference item allows the first page in the two double page modes
to be either on the left or on the right. Books usually put this page on
the right, so that is the default preference.

14) The preference dialog has a new pulldown menu to reset preferences to
default values. This addition was requested by Seiji Zenitani for users in
Japan who must cope with three different versions of pTeX. These users can
now rapidly set preferences without consulting documentation on web sites.

15) At Kevin Ballard's suggestion, the Preferences Panel is no longer
hidden when TeXShop is deactivated.

16) The keystroke to switch between source and preview windows was changed
from control-1 to command-1 and a menu was provided for this task. (In the
past, users often did not know this feature was available.)
