September 3, 2004
Beginning of changes since 1.35

1) New German Localization and Help Files

2) Japanese Image Copy Type Preference didn't work, due to incorrect localization.
Now fixed.

3) Command Completion was repaired; the configuration file is now loaded and
saved in UTF-8 Unicode, and the first line of the file, opened with
Format --> Completion --> Open Completion File, is

	%&encoding=UTF-8 Unicode

4) Extensive work on pdfsync in both directions to fix errors.

5) When typesetting engines are called, they are now passed the
program filename with extension, rather than just the filename

6) Now uses version 1.2.4 of OgreKit

7) Conversion of eps, ps, and dvi files to pdf (caused by opening such a file)
now works even if the path to the file has folders whose names contain spaces.
In all three cases, the file can now be in a folder without write permission.
There is one case that still fails: 

	file is a "dvi" file, containing folder does not have
	write permission, and there is a space in some folder's name
	in the path leading to the file

(This was later fixed; see 14 below)

8) In 1.35, it was only possible to switch between the OgreKit Find panel
and the Apple Find panel in the English localization. This preference now
always works. To fix it, I had to add a line to the OgreKit Library file
in the routine which modifies a program's Find menu. The code now checks the 
Find Panel preference first.

9) Trash AUX Files now removes files with more extensions:

	ccs, idv, 4ct, 4tc, lg, xref (from TeX4ht; request of Bob Kerstetter)
	
	ttt, fff, ent (from endfloat and endnotes; request of Herb Schulz)

	wrm (from WARMreader; request of Gary Gray)

The list doesn't contain dvi (never did). I've removed bbl at the
request of Lawrence Paulson, Gary Gray, ADITYA TRIVEDI, and Josep Font.

10) I modified the English Help advanced_removeaux.htm to reflect this
new list.

11) The menu item to bring up the statistics panel was only in the
English version. Now it is in all versions.

12) Localized the statistics panel in German.

13) If the user tries to open a file with UTF-8 Unicode encoding, but
the file is not a legal utf8 file, a dialog now appears:

	This file is not encoded in UTF-8 Unicode.

	The file has been opened with MacOSRoman encoding.
	If that is not correct, close it and open again with an
	appropriate encoding.

14) With Gerben Wierda's help, fixed the code which opens a dvi
file. Now this dvi can be in a read-only directory and the path
leading to that directory can have folders whose names have spaces.

15) If the user tries to open a file, but the file is not a legal file 
in the chosen encoding, the file will be opened with MacOSRoman encoding 
and a dialog will appear warning the user of this change. The dialog 
explains that the window can be closed and the file opened with a 
different encoding. Note that usually TeXShop cannot tell the 
correct encoding. For example, a Latin1 file will open fine in 
MacOSRoman encoding, though some of the letters may be wrong. 

This change is mainly for people trying to open a fine with 
UTF-8 Encoding when the file was not coded for UTF-8 Unicode. 
A random collection of bytes will almost never be a legal 
UTF-8 Unicode file.

16) At this point I started to post this document when making minor
changes. All corrections above appear in 1.35d. Notice that the
minor version number appears in the About Box, which reads:
"TeXShop Version 1.35 (v1.35d)".

In 1.35e:

17) New Japanese Help by Yoshihisa Okazaki with help from Seiji Zenitani.

18) New Japanese localized strings

19) Further pdfsync fixes from source to preview. If a project
had a SourceDoc ./main.tex line instead of a SourceDoc main.tex line,
pdfsync could fail. This is fixed.

In 1.35f:

20) A further pdfsync fix in case the user wrote

	\include{./MyChapter/Chapter1} 

rather than 

	\include{MyChapter/Chapter1}

21) Changed the syntax for TeXShop commands as comments within the text.
The syntax is now uniform:

	%!TEX TS-program = xelatex
	%!TEX encoding = RTS-8 Unicode
	%!TEX root = ../Main.tex

The old syntax is still supported for compatibility purposes, but only
the new syntax is described in the help files and encouraged for future
use.

Each such line must occur within the first twenty lines of the document.

22) Now when a file is typeset, all open changed files with the same root
are first saved.

23) New Spanish help files and localization

24) In previous versions, it was possible to add a Macro button to the
Preview Window Toolbar in English, but not in other localizations. This is
fixed thanks to Juan Luis Varona.

25) Upgraded to the latest OgreKit, version 2.0.0beta5, released on 9/17/2004.

26) bib files are promoted to full class citizens; text can be dragged in them,
syntax coloring works, etc.

27) This is a remark rather than a bug fix. Users have reported that they
can no longer "find" words in the console window. Actually, they can. This
window has two portions. When typesetting ends, the bottom portion is active,
so the Find panel searches that portion and beeps when it finds nothing.
To activate the top, click on it. Now Find works.

28) In all display modes except single page mode, a black border is drawn
around each pdf page. Previously, this border was slightly inside the page,
cutting off a slight border around the page. Now it is just outside the
page. Thanks to Scott Randby for pointing out this error.

29) The "%!TEX TS-program " and "%!TEX root =" commands now work when used
with an external editor.

30) Made further improvements in sync from Preview window to Source window.

31) Additional Spanish localization improvements.

32) Added hidden preferences to set the insertion point color; this is needed
for users who change the default foreground color. For instance

	defaults write TeXShop insertionpoint_R 1.0
	defaults write TeXShop insertionpoint_G 1.0
	defaults write TeXShop insertionpoint_B 1.0

The default values for black text on white should be 0.0.

33) Added hidden preference to control first mouse behavior:

	defaults write TeXShop AcceptFirstMouse YES

The default value is YES. When it is YES, a click in a source window will also
set the insertion point to the click point. If it is NO, a second click is
required to change the insertion point.

34) Made 33) a visible preference: "Select on Activate"

35) Added pdf to the types of files TeXShop can edit, and added a pdf icon.
This allows TeXShop to be chosen as the default pdf viewer. The icon is the
best approximation I can make; edited improved versions are desired.

36) Martin Kerz added code to check for updates and ask Safari to download
an update if available.

37)) Fixed  RevertToSaved

38) New code by David Reitter to select the backslash symbol in situations
like "\this is \int"

39) Ogrekit upgraded to 2.0.1 version

40) Added bst, abc as editing types

41) Version number 2.0

42) There is a new hidden default:

	UseOldHeadingCommands

By default, it is NO. If it is set to YES, then the old style
%&tex
can still be used. The program will search for the new style first,
but if it is not found and the old style is found, then the old
style will be used.

Recall that the old style was %&encoding= or %&SourceDoc or %&pdflatex, etc.

43) At the suggestion of Rene Donner, added a "proxy-icon" to the Preview window
so the user can drag and drop the pdf file to a directory.

44) Added code "windowControllerWillLoadNib" which checks that
Mac OS X is version 10.4 or higher and reports an error message
otherwise. Later removed this code because it didn't help; TeXShop 2.00
quits in system 10.3.8 before it tries to load the document nib file,
even though all of the 2.00 changes occur there. This may be related to
using GCC 4.0.

45) Added a new sync method which does not require pdfsync.sty. This method requires
Tiger, and uses the Tiger pdf search methods to directly compare strings in the
source and preview documents. Therefore it works with latex + ghostscript and
with xetex.
