January 18, 2003

Changes since 1.27

1) The magnification glass has additional behavior. Holding down the command key while
mousing sets magnification level just like the option key, except that this
level is then remembered until the window closes. If it is set to large mode, then
holding down the option key temporarily magnifies in small mode. 

2) There is a new preference to set the background color of the source window.
This preference has no interface. To reset it to (r, g, b) = (.42, .39, .77), 
issue the commands

	defaults write TeXShop background_R .42
	defaults write TeXShop background_G .39
	defaults write TeXShop background_B .77

The values should be between 0.00 = black and 1.00 = white. Default is
r = g = b = 1.00.

3) Fixed a bug reported by Michael Murray: the program selection
tabs in the source and pdf windows weren't synchronized, so
the typeset command sometimes did something unexpected.

4) Richard Hazeltine ran into a bug in which his main.tex file
had an associated root file main.texshop which contained "main.tex".
In the past this would be harmless, but in TeXShop 1.27 it created
an infinite loop.

TeXShop is now protected against this simple kind of infinite loop;
in this special case, the file will typeset normally. Cases in which
f1.texshop points to f2.tex and f2.texshop points to f1.tex will
still create an infinite loop. I do not think it is important to
protect against this.

5) New German Localization by Martin Kerz

6) Modified the "root file" behavior slightly as requested by Gary Gray.
If the user opens a file which has a root file set by the "%SourceDoc" mechanism or by the "Set Root File" mechanism, then the root file is also opened. This means, in particular, that the pdf preview window opens. If the file is already open, then nothing unusual happens. But if the root file is not open, then after it is opened the source file of the root file is miniaturized. This is done by the zoom mechanism
(mainly because I don't know how to turn that zoom off). The zoom is a little surprising, but after a while it makes sense; TeXShop is saying "there is a root file and it is down here in the dock if you ever need it." 

7) The console window now remembers its position if the user moves it. This
change was suggested by users on the TeX On OS X reading list. Thanks!
This fix was also supplied to the source and preview windows. Previously,
only the first windows appeared in new positions, while any additional
windows opened appeared where they had been sit in the nib file. This is
fixed, so the preference "remember last position on close" works better.

8) TeXShop finally uses the Apple Help System. This change is entirely due
to Martin Kerz, who wrote all of the html code. Much easier to use than the
old version.

9) A new toolbar item allows users to turn autocompletion on or off rapidly on a document by document basis. This idea (with sample code) comes from
Maartin Sneep. 

10) Seiji Zenitani fixed the following tag bug: if more than one item has the same text, only the first such item is shown.